CRI-O CVE-2022-0811 mitigation (#70)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/03/cri-o-cve-mitigation.md

---
title: CRI-O CVE-2022-0811 Mitigation
authors:
- José Guilherme Vanz
date: 2022-03-29
---

Recently a severe [CVE](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2022-0811)
in the CRI-O container engine come to public. The flaw in CRI-O allows bad
actors to gain root access and run arbitrary code in the host machine.

A [fix](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/releases/tag/v1.23.2) for the issue is
already available and you should update your cluster to avoid any headache in

> the future. But if you cannot do that now, you can use Kubewarden to mitigate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the future. But if you cannot do that right away, use Kubewarden to mitigate the impact of
```

this issue. It's possible to prevent pods with `sysctl` configuration

> to run in the cluster with the `sysctl-psp-policy` policy available in the [Policy

Reviewer: Is the policy named sysctl-psp or sysctl-psp-policy? If latter, we need to rephrase it as below

```suggestion
to run in the cluster with the policy named `sysctl-psp-policy` available in the [Policy
```

Reviewer 2: The repo in GitHub is named `sysctl-psp-policy` (because on GitHub we have policies + other repos that are not policies). However, the policy itself is named `sysctl-psp` (what it specifies on its [`hub.yml` file](https://github.com/kubewarden/sysctl-psp-policy/blob/main/hub.yml) file -- thus, published as such in the Kubewarden Hub.

I agree with @divya-mohan0209. Furthermore, can it be like:

```suggestion
to run in the cluster with the policy `sysctl-psp` policy available in the [Policy
```

Given, that in the Policy Hub is shown as such.

Reviewer: Agree with Rafael here.

Hub](https://hub.kubewarden.io/).

> The policy configuration to block all pod sysctl configuration is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy configuration to block all sysctl-related configuration for a pod is detailed below:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: policies.kubewarden.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: mitigate-crio-cve
spec:

>   policyServer: default

Reviewer 3: `policyServer: default` can be removed, since default will be used if no `PolicyServer` is provided

  module: registry://ghcr.io/kubewarden/policies/sysctl-psp:v0.1.7
  rules:
  - apiGroups: [""]
    apiVersions: ["v1"]
    resources: ["pods"]
    operations:
    - CREATE
    - UPDATE
  mutating: false
  settings:
    forbiddenSysctls:
    - "*"
```

> This will not allow pods defining kernel parameters to run. It's important to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will not allow pods that have kernel parameters defined to run. It's important to
```

> remember that this is **not** the fix for the issue. You must update your CRI-O as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
remember that this is **not** a fix for the issue, but a temporary mitigation. You must update your CRI-O version as
```

soon as possible.

> You can test the solution using this pod definition from the [Sysdig blogpost](https://sysdig.com/blog/cve-2022-0811-cri-o/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test the solution using the pod definition from [this Sysdig blogpost](https://sysdig.com/blog/cve-2022-0811-cri-o/):
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: sysctl-set
spec:
  securityContext:
   sysctls:
   - name: kernel.shm_rmid_forced
     value: "1+kernel.core_pattern=|/var/lib/containers/storage/overlay/3ef1281bce79865599f673b476957be73f994d17c15109d2b6a426711cf753e6/diff/malicious.sh #"
  containers:
  - name: alpine
    image: alpine:latest

```

> Once the above `sysctl-psp` policy is running, you will not be able to deploy the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the`sysctl-psp` policy is running, you will not be able to deploy the pod.
```
